My name is Steve Kinney and
I am the front-end architect at Temporal,
our company that does workflows as code,
and a lot of the processes around making
all the ways building an application
can go wrong, not go wrong.
So, if you need your code to
be reliable at all times,
you should definitely check out Temporal.
And what I'm gonna talk
a little bit about today is,
we spent a lot of time building
client-side applications.
We think a lot about, okay, is a for
loop faster than a for each loop, so
on and so forth.
And we don't necessarily spend as
much time always thinking about,
how do we actually get these
applications to our users?
So this workshop is
a workshop on building,
not only taking the client-side
applications that we've built,
and building the kind of
professional grade infrastructure
necessary to get it to our users
reliably and performantly.
And it's based on kind of putting
together kind of multiple runs at this.
Before I was the front-end
architect at Temporal,
I was a front-end architect at Twilio, and
before that, the front-end architect and
principal engineer at SendGrid.
This is the thing that we've kind of taken
multiple iterations at over the course of
the last few years.
And how to actually build that for
yourself,
it's simpler than you might think.
That even if you think about how long
we're gonna talk about this today,
we're also gonna talk about it and
explain it all.
Actually putting together and
putting in place the infrastructure that
makes your application really performant,
and reliably so, is something that
is relatively in your control.
And there are a lot of other ways
that you can go about doing this.
Especially, there are options such
as nullify and Vercel in Cloudflare.
And those, for a lot of cases,
might be a really great option.
But there's times where you also
need to do enough custom things or
your company already has AWS and
some of this infrastructure in place.
And you're looking to tweak it, or improve
it, or make it better, or you kinda wanna
learn how these other companies that
are building this kind of infrastructure,
how they work and how you can kind
of have that in place for yourself.
So, it's kind of what we're
gonna cover in this course.
Is we kind of build all the pieces
necessary to have this infrastructure in
place for
a project that will work reliably,
if it's your personal blog, as well
as if you were building a application
that makes tens of millions of
dollars a year, or possibly more.
So, before we get all the way into all
the moving pieces around that, let's
talk a little bit about just the kind
of problem that inspired a lot of this.
I worked on this application, and long
ago, it was a Ruby on Rails application.
So, server-rendered pages,
so on and so forth.
You'd render some server,
some HTML on the server, send it out,
there'd be some Coffee Script and
some jQuery stuff would move around.
Eventually, that became
a React application.
But it still had the fundamental
problem of the four servers that were
serving out this application
were located outside of Chicago.
And so, the further you got from Chicago,
the worse the time to first byte was,
and all the subsequent other bytes.
And so, performance would get worse,
and worse, and worse,
the further you were away from the Central
Time Zone in the United States of America.
Which it turns out,
we had some metrics to show that India and
Brazil were two of the kind of
bigger regions, as well as London,
where performance was actually
really kind of not great.
So, we started out with our client-side
code, it was hosted on a Rails app.
The Rails app was located in Chicago.
It was getting a little bit tricky.
And we had this opportunity to, one,
start thinking about where we'd
put our client-side assets and
eventually move the entire front-end
into AWS using CloudFront.
And we'll kind of explore how we did it,
and
how you might choose to do it, as well.
Let's look at some of the numbers first.
So, we have the before column,
SendGrid was based out of Denver.
And so, time to Chicago, not too bad.
Even then, the performance gain within the
US was pretty good cuz there's actually
a CloudFront edge node in Denver,
as well as Minneapolis.
So that even is somewhat helpful.
Go out to Frankfurt and
you're going from 11 seconds down to 1.8.
Mumbai, you're going from
9.6 seconds down to 1.3.
And Sydney,
from 12 seconds down to 0.8 seconds.
So huge performance gains that didn't
really involve any change in our code,
right?
It was just a change in how we got
that code to our users, right?
Because, rather than figure out
the optimal one place to put it,
you can use CloudFront just
to put it everywhere, right?
And one user has to pay the cost of it
going all the way to a given Amazon region
while everyone else has it cached nearby,
and they're able to get it a lot faster.
So, one person pays that original cost,
every subsequent end user gets something
very close to these performance levels for
loading the application.
Like I said,
we're gonna build this application today.
And what we're gonna build will
have the following characteristics.
And we're gonna build it to a point
where we have it kinda working but
it's got some trade-offs.
And then, slowly, over the course of our
time together, we will address each one
of those trade-offs until we have a pretty
kinda solid implementation, as well
as some opportunities for how you could
even further improve it, after the fact.
So, we're gonna get our client-side
application hosted on AWS via S3.
Have it distributed globally, so that no
matter where you are in the world you're
getting fast access to that application.
Secured with HTTPS using SSL cert.
Automatically deployed,
at first we'll do it by hand,
at first we're gonna literally
hit an Upload button.
And then we will do it
from the command line and
then eventually we'll have it
automatically deployed with a CI/CD
pipeline that we'll write
using GitHub actions.
And then for kind of custom things like
fixing some of the security headers and
stuff along those lines.
We'll use Lambda, and Edge, and
CloudFront functions to see that we can
actually take this infrastructure and
program it, and write code against it to
do various things that we might wanna do.
We'll do some of
the general cases together,
we'll talk about some of the additional
things that you might wanna do,
depending on the specific
needs of your application.
What are we not gonna cover?
So, we're not gonna cover servers,
cuz this is a course on getting
your phone an application,
like interproduction in a scalable way.
We're gonna kinda dance next to
serverless, with this idea that you
can program your CDN, but
we're not gonna cover AWS Lambda in depth.
That is a course, in and of itself,
that Frontend Masters offers.
And you should absolutely check it out as
soon as you finish watching the rest of
this course.
So, let's look at a slide that we might
show at the end of this workshop.
So, we'll first get it
up onto the Internet,
just in someplace that Amazon's
willing to put it for us.
And we'll fix that URL to begin with.
We'll register a domain name.
There's not necessarily a requirement that
you have to go register a domain name
today, if you don't want to.
But I will, at least, go through the
process, so you can have that in place.
We'll kind of work through
this list of to-do's,
from the initial version that we start out
with, towards the version at the very end.